[Music]
Wow that is bright for comparison I did
this on the opposite side of my test
with beets well I think blackberry is
the new winner for brightest stain color
that's amazing with just one application
and wiped off a few months ago I
experimented with some staining
techniques using stuff around the house
the biggest surprises were the turmeric
spice and beet juice and of course those
blackberries which I tried out shortly
after I posted that video when they were
right in this video I'll try out some of
your suggestions before I get started
the samples from my first video have
been sitting on my workbench ever since
August so let's take a look at them now
for the most part the coloring has held
up pretty well I think some of them
would probably think more if they were
left in direct sunlight if I were going
to use any of these staged on an actual
project I would still apply a clear top
coat of lacquer or varnish to protect it
from UV rays just as a reminder stains
even commercial wood stains are
primarily for coloring wood and don't
offer any real protection to the wood so
always apply a clear topcoat the second
a lot of you had concerns about the food
products going rancid or leaving odors
and I was actually surprised that the
odors almost completely vanished as soon
as they were dry on the wood some had a
slight odor for a couple of days but
only when I brought them up to my nose
but it's really nothing worse than
commercial wood stains again a clear
topcoat would eliminate all odors so
there were a few suggestions to use
steel wool and vinegar
[Music]
of course this is a tried-and-true
technique and based on thousands of
YouTube videos I don't think there is
much I can add to the technique so I
won't be trying that out in this video
for this edition of weird wood stains
I've partnered with metri to see how
these stains will look on their interior
molding we've also teamed up with Chris
berry the Idaho painter who you also
know from home and garden from your
mortals he has a video showing you how
easy it is to install metree molding and
how small changes can make a large
impact I've heard about fuming wood with
ammonia but I've never tried it I'm
going to give it a shot on this piece of
oak crown molding I'll pour some of this
into the bottom of this pocket oh that's
strong I've got a block of wood with
some nails on it to elevate my test
piece I don't want it directly in
contact with the ammonia I'll just let
this sit and see what happens well it's
been 24 hours let's take a look at this
oh wow well that made a huge difference
here's the ammonia fumed piece and bear
oh it looks like the fumes penetrated
deeply into all of the wood fibers
giving it this great walnut color I
should also point out that this is just
regular household ammonia that I picked
up at the supermarket this is definitely
a viable effective option for coloring
wood well mustard will certainly leave a
stain on your shirt when you're eating a
hot dog let's see how well it works on
wood
[Music]
well that actually turned out better
than I expected the mustard gives it
kind of a golden tint shoe polish is an
interesting suggestion I am hoping it
acts just like regular wood paste wax
Wow that has a real dramatic effect on
the wood and you can kind of buff it out
it has a nice slick glossy feel to it
RIT is normally used for dyeing fabrics
I'm going to mix it up with some hot
water
[Music]
well another winner I'd call RIT died
very effective and they come in all
different colors so it might be fun to
experiment with those too I thought this
one sounded fun let's see if we give
this board a kool-aid moustache well
this one definitely smells the best it
smells like candy in my shop
the grape kool-aid looks more green than
purple and now the cherry I think cool
egg might work better on a lighter
colored wood this is a piece of the
metree crown molding made from poplar
well the cool I definitely work on both
of these pieces it's more pronounced on
the poplar the lighter colored wood with
no pronounced grain but on the oak it
does kind of give it a nice tint I
really think this is going to be the
messiest I've got some really black used
motor oil
Wow well more than any of the others the
motor-oil definitely brings out the
grain in the wood well that is a
striking difference and I kind of wonder
if the motor oil might be adding some
protection to the wood to finally
several of you asked about food coloring
I actually tried that a few years ago to
create this tie-dye effect and it worked
out great I protected the frame with
lacquer and it's been on the wall for
over four years here's what it looks
like now I think food coloring is an
excellent way to color wood I want to
thank metree for sponsoring this video
and for sending me these molding samples
metree has an extensive collection of
trims and moldings on their website from
solid wood products to pre-primed MDF if
your going to paint a project even a
small change like installing a chair
rail can really make a big impact in
your home for project ideas tutorials
and lots more information please check
out the metree website at met recom or
click on the link down in the
description and be sure to watch Chris's
metry installation video for
professional painting and installation
tips well I gotta say that the big
winners here are ammonia which gives the
wood a nice weathered appearance and
surprisingly used motor oil which makes
the grain pop like nothing I've tried
before I have more stains on my list to
try out in weird wood stains number
three if you have any suggestions you'd
like to see me try leave a comment
thanks for watching everybody I'll see
you next time